.TH usbk 1 "May 26, 2011" "" "usbk"

.SH NAME
usbk \- linux cli program of usbk

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B usbk
.RB [ -adhisTtXv ]
.RB [ "-c "\fINEWPASSWORD \fR ]
.RB [ "-F "\fIKEYSIZE \fR ]
.RB [ "-f "\fIKEYFORMAT \fR ]
.RB [ "-k "\fIKEYNO \fR ]
.RB [ "-m "\fIKEYNAME \fR ]
.RB [ "-n "\fIDEVICELABEL \fR ]
.RB [ "-p "\fIPASSWORD \fR ]
.RB [ "-u "\fIDEVICENAME \fR ]
.RB [ "-x "\fINEWKEY \fR ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains the \fBusbk\fR which is command line interface (CLI) program . This program allows user to manage \fIUSBK(s)\fR plugged to the
host system. To execute this program, you must have superuser privilege. 
.PP
The \fIUSBK\fR is a device which protects user's critical data on USB Flash Disk and USB External Hard Drive by AES (Advanced Encryption Standard).
the two models of \fIUSBK\fR are available as A101 and A103. A101 has one encryption key and A103 has also 3 encryption keys.  

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-a\fR, \fB--activate\fR
activates USBK with specific encryption key. After activation, USBK is ready to encrypt and decrypt user's 
data during data transfer with selected encryption key. This option must be used with -p and -u options.  
.TP 
\fB-c\fR \fINEWPASSWORD \fR, \fB--newpasswd\fR=\fINEWPASSWORD \fR
sets new password for USBK as NEWPASSWORD. NEWPASSWORD must be minimum 4 characters long and not exceed 16 
characters. It may contain three different types of characters: letters, numbers and special characters such 
as punctuation marks, etc.. This option can be used for setting first password or changing password after 
first usage. For changing password, this option must used with -p option. Moreover, after the set of new 
password, random encryption key(s) is generated by USBK and assigned on it. That’s why, it is strongly 
recommended to set encryption key(s). This option must be used with -u option.
.TP 
\fB-d\fR, \fB--deactivate\fR
deactivates USBK. Deactivation is tantamount to removing BackDisk. It is equivalent in effect with removing 
BackDisk although it is plugged-in the USBK. Before deactivating USBK, user must be sure that the disks of 
BackDisk are unmount ; otherwise deactivation without unmounting could corrupt the data on the devices. Moreover, 
user should deactivate the USBK, before leaving the USBK plugged-on host system, changing some settings, activating 
USBK with another key(Valid for A103 model). This option must be used with -u option.
.TP 
\fB-F\fR \fIKEYSIZE \fR, \fB--key-size\fR=\fIKEYSIZE \fR
declares key size for changing key. This option defines the size of encryption key in bit size and KEYSIZE parameter 
is either "128" for 16 byte or "256" for 32 byte. The default value of this option is "256". This option selects the 
type of AES as AES-128 or AES-256 in the meantime. So, this option can be used with -x option.
.TP 
\fB-f\fR \fIKEYFORMAT \fR, \fB--key-format\fR=\fIKEYFORMAT \fR
declares key format for changing key option. KEYFORMAT parameter is either "d" for decimal form or "t" for text 
form. The default value of this option is "d". Encryption key in ‘Text’ type must be characters long with letters, 
numbers and special characters such as punctuation marks, etc. Decimal is formed of numeric digits between 0 and 255, 
each digit separated with a dot. This option can be used with -x option. 
.TP 
\fB-h\fR, \fB--help\fR
shows the help page of USBK linux CLI program.
.TP 
\fB-i\fR, \fB--show-info\fR
shows more detail information of a specific USBK which is declarated with -u option. This information contains 
USBK device name, BackDisk device name, product, model, serial number, firmware version, device label, status, 
retry number, existance of BackDisk, autoactivation feature, max. key capacity and names of keys. 
.TP 
\fB-k\fR \fIKEYNO \fR, \fB--key-no\fR=\fIKEYNO \fR
selects a specific key which has KEYNO key number to manage USBK with this key. This option may be used for 
activation, autoactivation or changing encyption key.A101 model has one encryption key so this option may not 
be used. On the other hand, A103 model has 3 encryption keys. This option is necessary for A103 model. If the 
option is not used, its default value is 1 and first encryption key is selected by default.
.TP 
\fB-m\fR \fIKEYNAME \fR, \fB--keyname\fR=\fIKEYNAME \fR
changes keyname of selected key to KEYNAME. The max. lenght of KEYNAME is 12 characters. This option can be 
used with -x option and the -u option is mondatory for this option.
.TP 
\fB-n\fR \fIDEVICELABEL \fR, \fB--label\fR=\fIDEVICELABEL \fR
sets new device label for USBK as DEVICELABEL. The device label of USBK is used to separate this USBK from others. 
This option must be used with -p option. Besides, the status of USBK is “Force Remove” after changing device label. 
In this status, no setting can not be done by user. User must unplug USBK from Host system and then re-plug for 
appying this change and doing any settings. This option must be used with -u option.
.TP 
\fB-p\fR \fIPASSWORD \fR, \fB--passwd\fR=\fIPASSWORD \fR
declares user's password to manage a specific USBK as PASSWORD. This option is used for authantication with other 
options. The -u option is mondatory for this option.
.TP 
\fB-s\fR, \fB--show-devices\fR
shows device list of USBKs plugged to host system and gives some information related to them as USBK device name, 
BackDisk device name, product, model, serial number and firmware version. USBK device name and BackDisk device name 
auch as "sdd" and "sdc" are same as device names of USBK and BackDisk in linux operating system ("/dev" directory). 
Moreover, USBK device name is used to manage USBK and mount virtual disk of USBK. Besides, the BackDisk device name 
is used to mount BackDisk. 
.TP 
\fB-t\fR, \fB--enable-auto\fR
disables autoactivation feature of USBK. This option must be used with -u and -p options.
.TP 
\fB-T\fR, \fB--disable-auto\fR
enables autoactivation property of USBK with a selected key. With Auto-Activation property, USBK is configured 
to automatically activate when plugged in a HostSystem. So,  USBK can be used on hostsytems which do not have 
any user interface for password entry. When Auto-Activation is enabled, USBK does not ask for password confirmation 
to verify user. Thence, it can be used directly on test & measurement equipments such as oscilloscope, EKG, etc. 
If BackDisk plugged-on your USBK in “Auto-Activation Enabled” is lost, any user can access the data on your BackDisk 
when he plug in the computer as no password is asked to verify user. Just carry only USBK when “Auto-Activation 
Enabled” for the security of the data on BackDisk. This option must be used with -u and -p  options, and the -k 
option is optional. 
.TP 
\fB-u\fR \fIDEVICENAME \fR, \fB--dev\fR=\fIDEVICENAME \fR
declares a USBK with DEVICENAME to manage. DEVICENAME is device name of the USBK device in linux host system such as 
"sdd" and can be learnt by -s option. This option must be used with -u and -p options.
.TP 
\fB-X\fR, \fB--change-key-with-random\fR
sets new key for selected key number of USBK as random-generated key. USBK has random generator and this option 
provides that the key is generateed randomly and set by USBK and then shows it to user for writing down. 
This option must be used with -u and -p options and the -k option is optional.    
.TP 
\fB-x\fR \fINEWKEY \fR, \fB--change-key\fR=\fINEWKEY \fR
sets new key for selected key number of USBK as NEWKEY. After setting/changing your encryption key(s), usee has 
to write down encryption key(s) in note for future reference, but remember to keep it confidential. There’s no 
way to recover encryption key(s) as they are never exported or displayed during usage of USBK. A lost of encryption 
keys results in lost of data on BackDisk. Therefore, it is very important that user remember the encryption key(s) or 
store it in a safe place. This option must used with "-p" password option. The "-k", "-F" and "-f" are not mondatary 
for this option. If these options are not used, the default values of "-k", "-F" and "-f" are "1", "256" and "d".
.TP 
\fB-v\fR, \fB--ver\fR
shows the version of USBK linux CLI program.

.SH EXAMPLE

.IP "To list USBKs plugged to host system:"
#usbk -s
.BR
.IP "To get more detail information about USBK:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -i
.BR
.IP "To set password for USBK in Fabric Default:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -c PASSWORD
.BR
.IP "To set encrption key and key name:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWORD -k KEYNO -m KEYNAME -f KEYFORMAT -F KEYSIZE -x NEWKEY
.BR
.IP "To random-generate and set encryption key:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWOD -k KEYNO -m KEYNAME -F KEYSIZE -X
.BR
.IP "To activate USBK with a encryption key:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWOD -a -k KEYNO
.BR
.IP "To deactivate USBK:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -d
.BR
.IP "To change password:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWORD -c NEWPASSWORD
.BR
.IP "To enable Auto-Activation:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWOD -k KEYNO -t
.BR
.IP "To disable Auto-Activation:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWOD -T
.BR
.IP "To change device label:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWOD -n DEVICELABEL
.BR
.IP "To change key name:"
#usbk -u DEVICENAME -p PASSWORD -k KEYNO -m KEYNAME
.BR
.IP "To learn version of USBK Linux CLI program:"
$usbk -v
.BR
.IP "To get help about the parameters of USBK CLI software:"
#usbk -h
	
.SH VERSIONS
USBK Linux CLI (usbk) 1.2.x: supports 2.5.x version of USBK.

.SH NOTES
Using User Guide for more detail information about usbk and usage of usbk. This document can be downloaded from USBK's website. 
<http://www.usbk-k.com> 


.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report the bugs of USBK Linux CLI program to <timucin@usb-k.com>
.br
USBK home page: <http://www.usb-k.com>

.SH AUTHOR
.br
Mehmet Emre Atasever
.br
Murat Kılıvan
.br
Timuçin Anuşlu

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2011 by USB-K Team. This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the 
GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any 
later version.
.P
See http://www.gnu.org/licenses/ for more information

.SH "SEE ALSO"